Week2_matplotlib_pandas/README.md, before:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT, Tuesday June 18th 2019. 
Contact Details to be sent out before meeting.

Instructors: Ellie and Ryan

#### Agenda: (Because a meeting without an agenda is no meeting at all).

1) Review/Checkin from last week (google form/poll):
   - How did the tutorials go?
   - What should the instructors do differently this week?

2) Short Tutorial on pandas (python data spreadsheets). Instructor screenshares, and: 
   - Use git to download this repository (git folder).
   - Open Jupyter notebook in this repository from the command line. The instructor will add these commands to the comments in the zoom channel so you can copy paste.
   - Open `pandas_tutorial.ipynb`. To execute each cell, press shift+enter at the same time. The instructor will step through the first few cells, but you'll get to finish this one on your own.

3) Short Tutorial on matplotlib (python plotting). Instructor screenshares, and: 
   - Open Jupyter notebook in this respository from the command line as before.
   - Open `matplotlib_tutorial.ipynb`. Follow along as the instructor
     walks through basic plotting commands, then create a quick plot using what
     we learn.

4) Paper discussion.

### Discussion Questions:

 1) What are the major exoplanet detection techniques in use today, and what are the strengths and weaknesses of each?
 2) What are major open questions in exoplanets today? List as many as you can. How are current observations planning to address these questions?


## Assignments for this Week:

### Paper of the week:
"Life Outside the Solar System" by Su-Shu Huang https://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v202/n4/pdf/scientificamerican0460-55.pdf

Take the next two weeks to read and digest this paper. Refer to our [Introduction to Reading Scientific Papers](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Introduction-to-Astronomy-Research/blob/master/Week2/science_papers_intro.md) guide for advice!

Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class Piazza page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!


## Resources
### Numpy:

Main Website:
http://www.numpy.org

Tutorial for this week:
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/quickstart.html

Bonus round: 100 Numpy commands 
https://github.com/rougier/numpy-100/blob/master/100_Numpy_exercises.ipynb
(This notebook can be cloned to your local computer)

### Pandas: 
The `pandas` module is very handy for accessing data in python. You can think of it as a python version of excel filled with columns of data and rows for each item described by those columns. Because `pandas` allows us to create these "spreadsheets" in python, we can do powerful analysis when we combine `pandas` with other modules, like `numpy` and `matplotlib`. Your `pandas` assignment for this week is to complete the tutorial notebook in this section until the challenge section. After you've done this, check out the `pandas` main website where you can find all the documentation describing the use of this python module.

#### 1. Pandas Assignment

   [Tutorial for this week](pandas_tutorial.ipynb)
   
   Main Website:
   https://pandas.pydata.org
   
#### 2. Bonus Pandas Assignment

   [Challenge Section of this week's tutorial](pandas_tutorial.ipynb)
   
   Head over to https://stackoverflow.com and see if you can find a question about `pandas` by searching for it in the search bar. What words do you understand in this question that you didn't understand last week? What words are still new? Ask a question about one of the new words on Piazza to find out its definition.
   
#### 3. More Pandas Tutorials

   https://bitbucket.org/hrojas/learn-pandas/src/master/

### Matplotlib
https://matplotlib.org/users/pyplot_tutorial.html

Matplotlib is used to visualize datasets in an interactive way. 
In order to test if you have matplotlib setup correctly, try the following:
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot([1,2,3,4])
plt.ylabel('some numbers')
plt.show()
```

Then work through the plotting exercise in the notebook
`matplotlib_assigment.ipynb`






### Scipy (optional):
https://scipy.org

Scipy is an incredibly powerful module for conducting high level scientific computing. Because we are 
focusing on the basics of scientific computing in this class, only a single basic tutorial will be assigned.
For those of you who desire more depth, please explore the full tutorials page linked from the scipy homepage.

Tutorial for this week:  
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/interpolate.html
   This tutorial covers a very common tool used in astronomy, interpolation. 
   For a full list of scipy tutorials [click here](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/index.html)

Commit message:

add assignment to respond to discussion question

Week2_matplotlib_pandas/README.md, after:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT, Tuesday June 18th 2019. 
Contact Details to be sent out before meeting.

Instructors: Ellie and Ryan

#### Agenda: (Because a meeting without an agenda is no meeting at all).

1) Review/Checkin from last week (google form/poll):
   - How did the tutorials go?
   - What should the instructors do differently this week?

2) Short Tutorial on pandas (python data spreadsheets). Instructor screenshares, and: 
   - Use git to download this repository (git folder).
   - Open Jupyter notebook in this repository from the command line. The instructor will add these commands to the comments in the zoom channel so you can copy paste.
   - Open `pandas_tutorial.ipynb`. To execute each cell, press shift+enter at the same time. The instructor will step through the first few cells, but you'll get to finish this one on your own.

3) Short Tutorial on matplotlib (python plotting). Instructor screenshares, and: 
   - Open Jupyter notebook in this respository from the command line as before.
   - Open `matplotlib_tutorial.ipynb`. Follow along as the instructor
     walks through basic plotting commands, then create a quick plot using what
     we learn.

4) Paper discussion.

### Discussion Questions:

 1) What are the major exoplanet detection techniques in use today, and what are the strengths and weaknesses of each?
 2) What are major open questions in exoplanets today? List as many as you can. How are current observations planning to address these questions?


## Assignments for this Week:

### Paper of the week:
"Life Outside the Solar System" by Su-Shu Huang https://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v202/n4/pdf/scientificamerican0460-55.pdf

Take the next two weeks to read and digest this paper. Refer to our [Introduction to Reading Scientific Papers](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Introduction-to-Astronomy-Research/blob/master/Week2/science_papers_intro.md) guide for advice!

Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class Piazza page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!

### Respond to Discussion Question 2 in "Discussion Questions" above

## Resources
### Numpy:

Main Website:
http://www.numpy.org

Tutorial for this week:
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/quickstart.html

Bonus round: 100 Numpy commands 
https://github.com/rougier/numpy-100/blob/master/100_Numpy_exercises.ipynb
(This notebook can be cloned to your local computer)

### Pandas: 
The `pandas` module is very handy for accessing data in python. You can think of it as a python version of excel filled with columns of data and rows for each item described by those columns. Because `pandas` allows us to create these "spreadsheets" in python, we can do powerful analysis when we combine `pandas` with other modules, like `numpy` and `matplotlib`. Your `pandas` assignment for this week is to complete the tutorial notebook in this section until the challenge section. After you've done this, check out the `pandas` main website where you can find all the documentation describing the use of this python module.

#### 1. Pandas Assignment

   [Tutorial for this week](pandas_tutorial.ipynb)
   
   Main Website:
   https://pandas.pydata.org
   
#### 2. Bonus Pandas Assignment

   [Challenge Section of this week's tutorial](pandas_tutorial.ipynb)
   
   Head over to https://stackoverflow.com and see if you can find a question about `pandas` by searching for it in the search bar. What words do you understand in this question that you didn't understand last week? What words are still new? Ask a question about one of the new words on Piazza to find out its definition.
   
#### 3. More Pandas Tutorials

   https://bitbucket.org/hrojas/learn-pandas/src/master/

### Matplotlib
https://matplotlib.org/users/pyplot_tutorial.html

Matplotlib is used to visualize datasets in an interactive way. 
In order to test if you have matplotlib setup correctly, try the following:
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot([1,2,3,4])
plt.ylabel('some numbers')
plt.show()
```

Then work through the plotting exercise in the notebook
`matplotlib_assigment.ipynb`






### Scipy (optional):
https://scipy.org

Scipy is an incredibly powerful module for conducting high level scientific computing. Because we are 
focusing on the basics of scientific computing in this class, only a single basic tutorial will be assigned.
For those of you who desire more depth, please explore the full tutorials page linked from the scipy homepage.

Tutorial for this week:  
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/interpolate.html
   This tutorial covers a very common tool used in astronomy, interpolation. 
   For a full list of scipy tutorials [click here](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/index.html)
