In this week's lecture, we will dive into the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. At UC Berkeley, the Breakthrough Listen Initiative leads the most extensive and sensitive search for intelligent life beyond the Earth. While I now split my time between exoplanet and SETI research, during school, my goal was always to do research in exoplanets, but when the opportunity to do SETI research arose, I was well positioned because I had studied a wide range of topics, and had a broad range of skills. I had considered that I may need to work outside of Academia, I was unsure if the skills that I was learning would translate well to a job outside of academia. By building on the skills that you are learning in this program, you will be well positioned to either pursue Astronomy or some other science further, and you will also have the skills that are needed in the technology industry. For those of you in Bay Area, this is a familiar term. Companies like Google and Facebook really invented the job of Data Scientist. Companies like Stitchfix and Netflix depend heavily on tech savvy employees with programming and statistics experience.

I discovered when exploring jobs in the tech industry, that it is filled with people who are former research astronomers. Many, but not all of them, have PhDs in Astronomy and some worked for a few years beyond their PhD. Even from the field of exoplanets, I could name a dozen people who left the field of academic astronomy to pursue jobs from the biggest to the smallest tech companies. All of these details are not to discourage you from pursuing astronomy, but to let you know that if you study and work in astronomy, you will be preparing yourself for the future inside OR outside of Astronomy. You may certainly end up as a professor or researcher someday, but you will also be prepared for a variety of other careers in which the skills that you are learning this summer will serve you well.
