Adversity presents itself in many ways. Through intellectual challenges, and struggle to comprehend difficult concepts to discrimination and stereotypes, there are inumberable challenging to overcome in order to succeed and flurish in today's modern world. Historically astronomers have had to overcome religious confrontations to their work. From Galileo and Compernicus to Giordano Bruno, some have been more successful than others in these confrontations.

In more modern times, meaning over the last ~100 years, astronomy has found its place among academic studies. On an individual level, astronomy struggled and in many ways still struggles to treat men and women fairly. It was once common for professors to take the credit for work done by graduate students. If the graduate students were female, the problem was even worse. Jocelyn Bell Burnell was a pioneer in the world of pulsar discovery and was long uncredited for her work. Jill Target, one of the most widely known SETI astronomers made amazing strides in bringing SETI into mainstream science. Debra Fischer, a world-rekonwn planet hunter had difficulty emerging from the shadow of more well known exoplanet scientists. While we have made great strides since 100 years ago, some of that adversity that these astronomers encountered still remains, and presents itself as another barrier to overcome in order to be successful in astronomy.

None-the-less we know these names because their drive and dedication to astronomy was more powerful than any of that adversity. Persistence to understand, communicate and publish their results lead them to incredibly successful careers.

Throughout our lives, we will all face hurdles that impede our academic careers. Whether it's personal loss, missed opportunities, too little time or institutionalized barriers, we must accept them as challenges, deal with in their turn, and them move on to the next one. We can look to our friends, family and colleagues for support along the way. In fact, it is crucial to our success. But it is also import to remember that in the end, it is up to us - to thrive in the face of adversity,  to finish the things that we start and to excel beyond what we thought was possible. 

And that's your motivational speech for today. We have this week and next week left to complete those parts of the course that you didn't get to in the past. You have one primary task, that is to complete your research proposal. We are here to help and want to succedd in completing this final task.
