We live in the Space Age. July 20th is 50th anniversary of the day when humanity first landed on the moon. I'll have more to say on that historical event next week, for now, suffice to say space is a part of our everyday lives. In the last few years, we've been dazzeled by the new ways that people, now mostly private companies are entering space. Space X Falcon rockets successfully launch both practical and impractical things into space. We turn on our location services to use maps and get directions, and rely on a network of satelites that carry precise clocks to help us find where we are. More than ever discussions about going back to the Moon and onto Mars are common place. 

The space age has greatly impacted astronomy as well. From the well known Hubble Space Telescope to the other great observatories including the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, the Spitzer Space Telescope and the Chandra X-ray observatory and onto the exciting exoplanet finder Kepler, which we've already mentioned, we now have access to data collected from the newest exoplanet Mission TESS. The Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite is collecting data as we speak and is preparing to download the data for both experts and amateur scientists to study.

With the ability to acquire exquisite astronomical data with a few online searches of public data archives, astronomy has greatly benefited from projects such as Kepler and TESS. As you will once again see in today's lecture, like we have with the Gaia tutorial a few weeks ago, the use of online data products is both straight forward and incredibly powerful. Today we'll be downloading some TESS light curves and discussing what we can do with them.  But before we do, let's not forget that these sorts of projects do not happen on their own. Hundreds if not thousands of people have worked incredibly hard both on the science discussions and the engineering capabilities of such missions in order to make them happen. 

So let's not take for granted the access to such incredible data, and let us appreciate the hard that many people have put in, as well as the public funds that pay for world-class projects from Apollo to Hubble to TESS, and maybe someday back again.
