In this week's tutorials, we will discuss the programming language R, along with an introduction to statistics. These two topics, combined with the Python tutorials of previous weeks will complete the basic set of skills that will be taught in this program. I would hazard a guess that 50% of an observation astronomer's time is spent in Python and dealing with statistics. Eventually e-mail will overtake programming as the main thing you spend your time on, but that is a story for another day. While Python is slowly creeping ahead of R in terms of how many people use it, there are many practical reasons to learn R as well as Python.

For starters, it never hurts to have more tools in your tool kit. Knowing which programming language is right for which job is a very important skill, it will save you time and effort in the long run. There will be occasions, projects and questions that require some programming skills, and sometimes you will be able to complete that project with only a few commands in R versus many commands in Python, and visa versa.

When I was studying astronomy as a student, I was unsure if the skills that I was learning would translate well to a job outside of academia. By building on the skills that you are learning in this program, you will be well positioned to either pursue Astronomy or some other science further, and you will also have the skills that are needed in the technology industry. For those of you in Bay Area, this is a familiar term. Companies like Google and Facebook really invented the job of Data Scientist. Companies like Stitchfix and Netflix depend heavily on tech savvy employees with programming and statistics experience.

I discovered when exploring jobs in the tech industry, that it is filled with people who are former research astronomers. Many, but not all of them, have PhDs in Astronomy and some worked for a few years beyond their PhD. Even from the field of exoplanets, I could name a dozen people who left the field of academic astronomy to pursue jobs from the biggest to the smallest tech companies. All of these details are not to discourage you from pursuing astronomy, but to let you know that if you study and work in astronomy, you will be preparing yourself for the future inside OR outside of Astronomy. You may certainly end up as a professor or researcher someday, but you will also be parepared for a variety of other careers in which the skills that you are learning this summer will serve you well.
