We find ourselves in week 8 of this 10 week program. Many people have already stopped attending the lectures, and we have many fewer people online than we did in the beginning. Now is the most important time for you to dig your heels in, put your head down, continue your good habits and continue to work hard until the very end of this program. By stickign with the course so far, you have already separated yourselves as hard-working and dedicated students. If you continue to do so for two more weeks, you will be opening the door to a future opportunity, in the form of a paid 10-week summer internship in 2021. 

In January of 2021, many schools will start recruiting for next summer. Applications go in around the first of February. In order to apply, you must send your transcripts, a personal statement about why you are applying and a letter of recommendation from one of your teachers or supervisors. If you have made it this far, you can earn yourself a letter of recommendation of me or one of the other mentors by writing up your research proposal by the end of the program.  Once you submit these to us, you have shown that you are committed to such a program, and have the drive to follow through. This is exactly what the selection committees are looking for. 

The assignments this week are not as technically demanding as some of those in the past, so this is a good week to work on the assignments that you may have missed or skipped over in the past two months. The mentors are available in office hours to assist in any way they can. We all want you produce high quality research papers so we can write you strong letters of recommendation for next summer.
