Week8_latex/README.md, before:


# Agenda
- Motivation
- HIRES tutorial
- Paper discussion
- Introduce final project
- http://urap.berkeley.edu

### Tutorial
#### High Resolution Spectra and what we can learn from them.

We will have a walk through of a tutorial produced by a former UCB student Haynes Stevens.
The challenge tutorial will be uploaded on Tuesday (Wednesday at the latest).

Link to today's tutorial:
https://github.com/UCBerkeleySETI/breakthrough/blob/master/APF/Tutorial/Tutorial%20-%20Work%20With%20APF%20Data%20%26%20Search%20for%20ETI%20Current.ipynb


Here is a second tutorial that you may find useful when analyzing Keck-HIRES data in 
the independent tuttorial:

HIRES Introduction and analysis: 
https://github.com/ylecoeuche/HIRES_analysis/blob/master/HIRES.ipynb 

### Final Project
* Go through project assignment in root directory.

### Writing Exercise
* List all the techniques you have learned or developed for effectively reading a scientific paper.

### Paper to discuss:
"Life Outside the Solar System" by Su-Shu Huang https://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v202/n4/pdf/scientificamerican0460-55.pdf

Commit message:

Add Bowler paper to week 8

Week8_latex/README.md, after:


# Agenda
- Motivation
- HIRES tutorial
- Paper discussion
- Introduce final project
- http://urap.berkeley.edu

### Tutorial
#### High Resolution Spectra and what we can learn from them.

We will have a walk through of a tutorial produced by a former UCB student Haynes Stevens.
The challenge tutorial will be uploaded on Tuesday (Wednesday at the latest).

Link to today's tutorial:
https://github.com/UCBerkeleySETI/breakthrough/blob/master/APF/Tutorial/Tutorial%20-%20Work%20With%20APF%20Data%20%26%20Search%20for%20ETI%20Current.ipynb


Here is a second tutorial that you may find useful when analyzing Keck-HIRES data in 
the independent tuttorial:

HIRES Introduction and analysis: 
https://github.com/ylecoeuche/HIRES_analysis/blob/master/HIRES.ipynb 

### Final Project
* Go through project assignment in root directory.

### Writing Exercise
* List all the techniques you have learned or developed for effectively reading a scientific paper.

### Paper of the Week:
Continue reading: Imaging Extrasolar Giant Planets (Bowler 2016). Sections 1-2, 5-6 only.
 * ADS: http://esoads.eso.org/abs/2016PASP..128j2001B
