Week2_numpy_astropy/README.md, before:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm Tuesday June 18th 2019. 
Contact Details to be sent out before meeting.

#### Agenda: (Because a meeting without an agenda is no meeting at all).

1) Review/Checkin from last week (google form/poll):
   - How did the tutorials go?
   - What should the instructors do differently this week?

2) Short Tutorial on IPython, Jupyter, and git. Instructor screenshares, and:  (REPLACE WITH PANDAS)
   - Use git to download this repository.
   - Show how to open a Jupyter notebook in this repository from the command line.
   - Opens iPython, and executes a few commands. 
   - Gives their 2 cents on when to use iPython, when to use Jupyter, and when to write a script.
   - Explains the purpose of Scipy and Astropy, and (if time) executes a few commands in each package.

3) How to read a scientific paper
   - See [Introduction to Reading Scientific Papers](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Intro-to-Astro-2019/blob/master/Week2_numpy_astropy/how-to_read_science_papers.md).
   - Instructor goes through the abstract, introduction, and figures of [this paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1509.07514.pdf) with students, explaining in detail their method for reading scientific papers. 

4) Writing prompt
   - Please create a Google Drive and share it with the instructors. Please keep all of your writing responses, completed tutorials, notes, etc. in this Drive.

### Writing Prompt

Please spend 5-7 minutes assessing your progress by writing in your online notebooks. Did you complete as many of the assignments as you wanted to last week? Are you happy with your progress? What will you do similarly and differently this week? What are the most important things you learned last week?

## Assignments for this Week:

### Numpy:

Main Website:
http://www.numpy.org

Tutorial for this week:
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/quickstart.html

Bonus round: 100 Numpy commands 
https://github.com/rougier/numpy-100/blob/master/100_Numpy_exercises.ipynb
(This notebook can be cloned to your local computer)

### Astropy: 
The astropy module has many of the essential and useful functions that Astronomers use on a daily basis. 
From the perspective of an observer, we can use astropy for planning and carrying out observations at the telescope.
All of the different astronomical units can be accessed from astropy, as well automated web querying, which is useful
for the future of big data, when you want to download thousands of astronomical targets' information in a single command.

Main Website:
http://www.astropy.org

Tutorial for this week:
http://astropy-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/rst-tutorials/Coordinates-Intro.html
Use the 'Download Tutorial Notebook' link

Bonus Round Astropy tutorial:
http://astropy-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/rst-tutorials/quantities.html
No need to worrry about plotting yet. We will cover that next week.

### Matplotlib
https://matplotlib.org/users/pyplot_tutorial.html

Matplotlib is used to visualize datasets in an interactive way. 
In order to test if you have matplotlib setup correctly, try the following:
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot([1,2,3,4])
plt.ylabel('some numbers')
plt.show()
```

### Paper of the week:
"Life Outside the Solar System" by Su-Shu Huang https://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v202/n4/pdf/scientificamerican0460-55.pdf

Take the next two weeks to read and digest this paper. Refer to our [Introduction to Reading Scientific Papers](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Introduction-to-Astronomy-Research/blob/master/Week2/science_papers_intro.md) guide for advice!

Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class Piazza page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!




### Scipy (optional):
https://scipy.org

Scipy is an incredibly powerful module for conducting high level scientific computing. Because we are 
focusing on the basics of scientific computing in this class, only a single basic tutorial will be assigned.
For those of you who desire more depth, please explore the full tutorials page linked from the scipy homepage.

Tutorial for this week:  
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/interpolate.html
   This tutorial covers a very common tool used in astronomy, interpolation. 
   For a full list of scipy tutorials [click here](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/index.html)

Commit message:

Updated schedule to include pandas

Week2_numpy_astropy/README.md, after:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm Tuesday June 18th 2019. 
Contact Details to be sent out before meeting.

Instructors: Ellie and Ryan

#### Agenda: (Because a meeting without an agenda is no meeting at all).

1) Review/Checkin from last week (google form/poll):
   - How did the tutorials go?
   - What should the instructors do differently this week?

2) Short Tutorial on pandas (python data spreadsheets). Instructor screenshares, and: 
   - Use git to download this repository.
   - Show how to open a Jupyter notebook in this repository from the command line and adds the bash code snippets to the Zoom comments so students can copy paste.
   - Opens iPython, and executes the python review and the pandas introduction section.

3) Short Tutorial on matplotlib (python plotting). Instructor screenshares, and: (add matplotlib intro here)
   - . 

4) Writing prompt
   - Please create a Google Drive and share it with the instructors. Please keep all of your writing responses, completed tutorials, notes, etc. in this Drive.

### Writing Prompt

Please spend 5-7 minutes assessing your progress by writing in a doc in your Google Drive folder. This will be your lab notebook for the summer! Did you complete as many of the assignments as you wanted to last week? Are you happy with your progress? What will you do similarly and differently this week? What are the most important things you learned last week?

## Assignments for this Week:

### Numpy:

Main Website:
http://www.numpy.org

Tutorial for this week:
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/quickstart.html

Bonus round: 100 Numpy commands 
https://github.com/rougier/numpy-100/blob/master/100_Numpy_exercises.ipynb
(This notebook can be cloned to your local computer)

### Pandas: 
The `pandas` module is very handy for accessing data in python. You can think of it as a python version of excel filled with columns of data and rows for each item described by those columns. Because `pandas` allows us to create these "spreadsheets" in python, we can do powerful analysis when we combine `pandas` with other modules, like `numpy` and `matplotlib`. Your `pandas` assignment for this week is to complete the tutorial notebook in this section until the challenge section. After you've done this, check out the `pandas` main website where you can find all the documentation describing the use of this python module.

1. Pandas Assignment

   Tutorial for this week:
   (link to notebook goes here)
   
   Main Website:
   https://pandas.pydata.org
   
2. Bonus Pandas Assignment

   Challenge Section of this week's tutorial:
   (link to notebook goes here)
   
   Head over to https://stackoverflow.com and see if you can find a question about `pandas` by searching for it in the search bar. What words do you understand in this question that you didn't understand last week? What words are still new? Ask a question about one of the new words on Piazza to find out its definition.

### Matplotlib
https://matplotlib.org/users/pyplot_tutorial.html

Matplotlib is used to visualize datasets in an interactive way. 
In order to test if you have matplotlib setup correctly, try the following:
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.plot([1,2,3,4])
plt.ylabel('some numbers')
plt.show()
```

### Paper of the week:
"Life Outside the Solar System" by Su-Shu Huang https://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v202/n4/pdf/scientificamerican0460-55.pdf

Take the next two weeks to read and digest this paper. Refer to our [Introduction to Reading Scientific Papers](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Introduction-to-Astronomy-Research/blob/master/Week2/science_papers_intro.md) guide for advice!

Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class Piazza page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!




### Scipy (optional):
https://scipy.org

Scipy is an incredibly powerful module for conducting high level scientific computing. Because we are 
focusing on the basics of scientific computing in this class, only a single basic tutorial will be assigned.
For those of you who desire more depth, please explore the full tutorials page linked from the scipy homepage.

Tutorial for this week:  
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/interpolate.html
   This tutorial covers a very common tool used in astronomy, interpolation. 
   For a full list of scipy tutorials [click here](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/index.html)
