We live in the Space Age. July 20th is 51st anniversary of the day when humanity first landed on the moon. Just last month, SpaceX re-invigorated United States Space travel by launching people into space for the first time in 9 years.  In watching the launch, I was  dazzeled by the new ways that people, now mostly private companies are entering space. Space X Falcon rockets successfully launch both practical and impractical things into space. We will hear about the TESS mission today and there is a Tesla on it's way to MARS, both were launched on a Falcon 9 Rocket. We rely on satellites for everyday uses. When we turn on our location services to use maps and get directions, and rely on a network of satelites that carry precise clocks to help us find where we are. More than ever discussions about going back to the Moon and onto Mars are common place. 

The space age has greatly impacted astronomy as well. From the well known Hubble Space Telescope to the other great observatories including the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, the Spitzer Space Telescope and the Chandra X-ray observatory and onto the exciting exoplanet finder Kepler,  we now have access to data collected from the newest exoplanet Mission TESS. The Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite is collecting data as we speak and is preparing to download the data for both experts and amateur scientists to study.

With the ability to acquire exquisite astronomical data with a few online searches of public data archives, astronomy has greatly benefited from projects such as Kepler and TESS. As you will once again see in today's lecture, like we have with the Gaia tutorial last week, the use of online data products is both straight forward and incredibly powerful. Today we'll be downloading some TESS light curves and discussing what we can do with them, as well as learning about fitting data.  But before we do, let's not forget that these sorts of projects do not happen on their own. Hundreds if not thousands of people have worked incredibly hard both on the science discussions and the engineering capabilities of such missions in order to make them happen. 

So let's not take for granted the access to such incredible data, and let us appreciate the hard that many people have put in, as well as the public funds that pay for world-class projects from Apollo to Hubble to TESS, and hopefully many more to come.
