Week4_tess_chi_squared/README.md, before:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT (UT-7), Monday June 29th, 2020.
Connection details will be sent via email

Instructors: Tim and Joey

#### Agenda:
* Intro
* Writing exercise
* TESS tutorial
* Chi-squared tutorial
* Group Discussion

### Howard: Intro
- Check-in, and a few words about TESS Spacecraft.

### Writing Exercise:
In your online notebooks, please spend 10 minutes responding to the following prompts:

    1. Write down what you remember from previous weeks about Kepler, transits, and photometry.

### Tutorials:
1. Tim: Tutorial on downloading and plotting TESS 2-minute lightcurves
2. Joey: Tutorial on chi-squared minimization
3. Group Discussion: (5 mins for each question; 10 mins for last question)

    1. Summarize the "Whistling Vivaldi" chapter.
    2. What are your reactions to the "Whistling Vivaldi" chapter? Did anything surprise you? What did you learn?
    3. How does stereotype threat affect your life?
    4. More generally, how do race, gender, and our other identities affect our daily lives, both in and outside astronomy?

### Paper of the Week:

[Growth model interpretation of planet size distribution (Zeng et al. 2019)] (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dSFWhcip5TK61KJ6jm-whv3R7cEWgP57/view?usp=sharing)

## Assignments for this Week

1. Complete the TESS tutorial. Which TESS planet did you choose to rediscover and why?
2. Look through this [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/jkslarj06iuvq2e/AAB5PENEy83B5rHihd2x9nEQa?dl=0) full of readings about race, gender, and other identities & the scientific community. Spend an hour (time yourself) reading whatever interests you. Write a two paragraph reflection about what you read.

Commit message:

Uploading chi-squared assignment, updating Week4 readme

Week4_tess_chi_squared/README.md, after:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT (UT-7), Monday June 29th, 2020.
Connection details will be sent via email

Instructors: Tim, Joey, and Isabel

### Agenda:
* Intro
* TESS tutorial
* Chi-squared tutorial
* Paper discussion

### Howard: Intro
- Check-in, and a few words about TESS Spacecraft.

### Tutorials:
1. Tim: Tutorial on downloading and plotting TESS 2-minute lightcurves
2. Joey: Tutorial on chi-squared minimization

### Paper discussion
Isabel: [Quintana et al. 2014](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14CJ_VsCKg09JYu_hfp2icFW2ZIIJ_c4o/view?usp=sharing)

### Paper of the Week:
[Growth model interpretation of planet size distribution](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dSFWhcip5TK61KJ6jm-whv3R7cEWgP57/view?usp=sharing) (Zeng et al. 2019)

### Assignments for this Week

1. Complete the TESS tutorial. Which TESS planet did you choose to rediscover and why?
2. Complete the questions in the chi_squared_assignment.ipynb notebook.
3. Look through this [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/jkslarj06iuvq2e/AAB5PENEy83B5rHihd2x9nEQa?dl=0) full of readings about race, gender, and other identities & the scientific community. Spend an hour (time yourself) reading whatever interests you. Write a two paragraph reflection about what you read.
