Motivation:

This is a special time of year, last Saturday, June 20th at 2:43pm Pacific, the Earth passed the part of its orbit that defines the summer solstice. This represents the first day of Summer in the northern hemisphere and winter in the southern hemisphere. The cardinal points on the astronomical calendar, the equinoxes and solstices, have been a part of human culture for thousands of years. For me personally, the summer solstice means long days and warm nights, along with summer fruit like peaches and cherries. In astronomy, it is a time when observational astronomers get to have shorter shifts, as they watch the summer triangle and the Kepler field pass overhead in the early evening. 

Since my first real astornomy job was focused on observations of the Kepler field, this time of year for me is quintessentially astronomical. And aside from work, I always set aside some time to enjoy the night sky. After years of observing during the summer months, I often look at astronomical calendars to determine the proper time to start and end nighttime observations. I always notice the length of day decrease until the solstice, and then start to increase again, by a few minutes each day, afterward.  I especially enjoy the subtlety of the way the sunrise and sunset times change this time of year. 

One might expect the earliest sunrise and latest sunset to occur on the solstice, but in fact, the earliest sunrise occurrs about two weeks before the solstice and the latest sunset about two weeks after.  This is one of those effects that we take for granted because there's no need to split hairs about such small details. But for me, it's these details that make seasonal patterns so fascinating. It's about appreciating the esoteric nature and depth to answers that only nature can provide.

So, as you move forward in your academic careers, remember two things, one,  that there is always another layer of complexity to any question you may explore, and that simplest answers to complex questions, just like the solstices and equinoxes can be appreciated in and of themselves.
