Week3_gaia_exoplanet_archive/README.md, before:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT (UT-7), Monday June 22nd, 2020.
Connection details will be sent via email

Instructors: Joey and Aldo

#### Agenda:
* Intro
* Writing exercise
* NASA Exoplanet Archive tutorial
* Gaia Database tutorial
* Discussion Questions for ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing)

### Intro

### Writing Exercise:
In your online notebooks (create a Google Doc for yourself in your personal [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1OvyqtCVJ9pP1dbwtozxFjz5VudCTxZdq?usp=sharing) for this class, if you don't already have one), please spend 5 minutes responding to the following prompt:

*For this week you were asked to read an article from 1960: ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing) by Su-Shu Huang. In the paper, we learned about the relationship between the spectral type of a star and its ability to host life-bearing planets. The Sun is a G-type star which will live on the main sequence for about 10 billion years. M-type stars are much less massive and will live on the main sequence for 10 times as long. What would a civilization on a planet around an M-type star look like if it had 100 billion years to evolve?*

Feel free to share some of your thoughts on [Piazza](https://piazza.com/intro_to_astro/summer2020/astr101/home) to continue the discussion!

### Tutorials:
1. Joey: NASA Exoplanet Archive
  - What is the NASA Exoplanet Archive?
  - What kind of data does it contain?
  - How can I access the data myself?
  - How do I visualize the data?

2. Aldo: Gaia Database
  - What is Gaia?
  - How can I access Gaia data? Basic and advanced queries.
  - A bit on ADQL


### Discussion Questions
1. O, B, and A-type stars are the most massive (i.e. most luminous) types of stars. This means they also have the largest habitable zones (see the last figure in ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing)). Why, then, are they poor targets in the search for life-bearing planets?
2. How does the multiplicity of stellar systems (i.e. single stars vs binaries, triples, etc.) affect the prospects for finding life on planets?
3. If you had to distill the "ingredients" for producing intelligent life on a planet down to a short list, what would it be?
4. After reading ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing), has your opinion changed about whether or not we'll ever discover life around another star?

## Assignments for this Week

### I NASA Exoplanet Archive tutorial
Complete sections 3 and 4 in Joey's Jupyter notebook tutorial on how to use the NASA Exoplanet Archive (see instructions inside notebook).

### II Gaia Database tutorial
The tutorial questions are at the bottom of the 'GaiaTutorialAssignment.ipynb' file. Make sure you try working with ADQL and do some test queries beforehand! You'll be plotting a Color-Magnitude Diagram of the 10,000 Closest Stars.
Bonus Questions: 
  - Compare your results against Figure 1 in this paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.09378.pdf. 
  - What similarities and differences do you notice? 
  - Challenge: read section 2.1 of that paper and try to reproduce their plot exactly.
### III Discussion Questions
Choose 2 discussion questions (above) to respond to in your online notebook.

### IV Paper of the Week
Read ["An Earth-Sized Planet in the Habitable Zone of a Cool Star"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14CJ_VsCKg09JYu_hfp2icFW2ZIIJ_c4o/view?usp=sharing) by Elisa V. Quintana *et al*. Refer to our [paper reading guide](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Intro-to-Astro-2020/blob/master/Week1_Intro_unix_python/how_to_read_scientific_papers.md). Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class [Piazza](https://piazza.com/intro_to_astro/summer2020/astr101/home) page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!

Commit message:

Added and Completed Week 3 Tutorial, Removed Key, and Changed README

Week3_gaia_exoplanet_archive/README.md, after:

## Meeting Time: 5:00pm PDT (UT-7), Monday June 28th, 2021.
Connection details will be sent via email

Instructors: Emilie, Chetan, Isaac

#### Agenda:
* Intro
* Writing exercise
* NASA Exoplanet Archive tutorial
* Gaia Database tutorial
* Discussion Questions for ["The First Habitable Zone Earth-sized Planet from TESS. I: Validation of the TOI-700 System"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00952)

### Intro

### Writing Exercise:
In your online notebooks (create a Google Doc for yourself in your personal [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1OvyqtCVJ9pP1dbwtozxFjz5VudCTxZdq?usp=sharing) for this class, if you don't already have one), please spend 5 minutes responding to the following prompt:

*For this week you were asked to read an article from 1960: ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing) by Su-Shu Huang. In the paper, we learned about the relationship between the spectral type of a star and its ability to host life-bearing planets. The Sun is a G-type star which will live on the main sequence for about 10 billion years. M-type stars are much less massive and will live on the main sequence for 10 times as long. What would a civilization on a planet around an M-type star look like if it had 100 billion years to evolve?*


Feel free to share some of your thoughts on [Piazza](https://piazza.com/intro_to_astro/summer2020/astr101/home) to continue the discussion!

### Tutorials
1. Emilie: NASA Exoplanet Archive
  - What is the NASA Exoplanet Archive?
  - What kind of data does it contain?
  - How can I access the data myself?
  - How do I visualize the data?
2. Chetan: Gaia Database
  - What is Gaia?
  - How can I access Gaia data? Basic and advanced queries.
  - A bit on ADQL
  - Plotting a color-magnitude diagram

### Discussion Questions
1. O, B, and A-type stars are the most massive (i.e. most luminous) types of stars. This means they also have the largest habitable zones (see the last figure in ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing)). Why, then, are they poor targets in the search for life-bearing planets?
2. How does the multiplicity of stellar systems (i.e. single stars vs binaries, triples, etc.) affect the prospects for finding life on planets?
3. If you had to distill the "ingredients" for producing intelligent life on a planet down to a short list, what would it be?
4. After reading ["Life Outside the Solar System"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V9Aw3sex06C6Gtlo7yzfwpsQZ2VUP9BZ/view?usp=sharing), has your opinion changed about whether or not we'll ever discover life around another star?

## Assignments for this Week

### I NASA Exoplanet Archive tutorial
Complete sections 3 and 4 in Joey's Jupyter notebook tutorial on how to use the NASA Exoplanet Archive (see instructions inside notebook).

### II Gaia Database tutorial
The tutorial questions are at the bottom of the 'GaiaTutorialAssignment.ipynb' file. Make sure you try working with ADQL and do some test queries beforehand! You'll be plotting a Color-Magnitude Diagram of the 10,000 Closest Stars.
Bonus Questions: 
  - Compare your results against Figure 1 and Figure 2 in this paper: [Babusiaux et al. (2018)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1804.09378.pdf)
  - What similarities and differences do you notice?
  - Challenge 1 : read section 2.1 of this paper and try to reproduce their plot exactly.
  - Challenge 2: Go to Week1 Python and Jupyter Intro.ipynb and try making the 3D plot with the 10,000 closest stars data you fetched
### III Discussion Questions
Choose 2 discussion questions (above) to respond to in your online notebook.

### IV Paper of the Week
Read ["Growth model interpretation of planet size distribution"](https://www.pnas.org/content/116/20/9723) by Li Zeng *et al*. Refer to our [paper reading guide](https://github.com/howardisaacson/Intro-to-Astro-2021/blob/master/Week1_Intro_unix_python/how_to_read_scientific_papers.md). Post 2-3 questions you have about this paper on our class [Piazza](https://piazza.com/intro_to_astro/summer2021/astr101/home) page. In addition, please answer at least one of your classmates' questions. You can do this anonymously if you'd like!
