Thank you to all of you who persevered through all ten weeks of this introduction to astronomy research summer program. If we have done a little bit to encourage and enable your future in research astronomy, then we achieved our goals. I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the reasons why this program came to be. First, it required so many of you to reach out to me in search of opportunity. Please continue to do this whether you pursue astronomy or some other venture. This skill will serve you well.

Second, after serving on panels and selection committees and having the experience of ranking both proposals and people, based on written documents, it has become obvious to me that experience is favored over almost everything else. This begs the question, how do people with no experience break into such a system. My answer to this is this summer program. There are no pre-requisites to this summer program on purpose. This program is meant to allow anyone who has the desire to learn to about exoplanet research to break through that initial barrier of having little or no experience.

I would like take a moment now to encourage everyone to remember this lesson as you move from beginning students to advanced students to professional jobs. You will encounter all sorts of people in your academic roles. Some of them will have incredible inherent ability and will seemingly know the answers to all of the hardest questions. Others will be incredibly prepared, and it will be obvious that they have worked hard to develop the ability to answer the hardest questions. In reality, everyone you encounter will have worked increcibly hard, some people just make it look easy.

As for this summer program, all of the people who helped put this program together have voluneetered their time to make this program happen. Each of us has many obligations to fulfill and we made this happen because we are dedicated the pricinples that I have just mentioned. I now call on each of you to continue this spirit of giving back, or some say, pay it forward by finding an opportunity to volunteer or conduct some outreach on your own. Believe it or not, you are all qualified to do this. There are 100's of high schools in the area who see college students as their future selves. They dream of attending a university like you all do, and you have the potential to inspire them simply by showing up and talking to them about what you already know. So search out a high school mentoring or volunteer program. Volunteer at a science musuem or local science outreach event. It is never too late or too early to begin.

Science is a way of thinking and processing ideas that is inherent to all people, but like a sapling of giant redwood tree, it must be tended and fostered in order to order to reach its full potential. Within science, we try our best to follow the rules and logic of science but beyond the walls of academia, the realities of people's needs and politics make decision making more complicated. By teaching others about the power of the scientific method, we can improve people's lives in a tradition that science has pursued for hundreds and even thousands of years.

SO! Go out and share your knowledge with others, whether they are scientists are not. Take the time to promote the science we do and inspire others to become scientists like you. It's rewarding, fulfilling and incredbly important.
